In this video, we're going to take a look at the different kinds of tests we're going to try to write
out for the different services inside of our ticketing project.
So, again, we're not going to focus too much on testing or trying to launch multiple services together
and try to test how they interact.
Instead, we're going to try to look at each service individually and test them one at a time.
So I want to show you the different kinds of tests that we're going to write as we are looking at,
say, just the OTT service by itself.
The first kind of test that we're going to write out is going to try to test basic request handling.
So, for example, we might want to try to make sure that if we make a request to our service to sign
up for something, then perhaps we should get back a response with a cookie that has the JSON web token
inside of it.
Or we might want to try to assert that we write some data into our MongoDB database.
So this is the first kind of test we're going to write.
We're going to make sure that we can issue a request to the service and then make sure that it gets
handled some in some very particular fashion.
The second test we're going to write is going to be more of a unit test style approach.
So the second test we're going to write might take a look at a very particular model inside of our app
and try to test some functionality around it.
This is not very relevant for the OTT service because our user model right now is very simple in nature.
But some of these services that we work on later will have models that are a little bit more complicated.
And so we are going to want to write some tests around them and make sure that they function in a very
particular way.
So again, the second kind of test we're going to write is going to take a look at individual models
and just try to make sure that they have some particular piece of functionality.
The final kind of test that we are going to write is going to handle the receiving and emitting of events
inside of our service.
At present, our service is not sending out or receiving any events, and we haven't even discussed
event handling inside this Kubernetes environment yet.
So we're not going to really worry about test goal number three either for the service, but for our
later services we put together, we will be writing out some code to make sure that we can receive incoming
events, to make sure that they get processed in some particular way, and to make sure that we can
issue events or send events to the outside world as well.
So again, those are the three kinds of tests that we're going to be focusing on.
Test gold number three right here.
Emitting and receiving events is how we are really going to accomplish kind of simulating different
services, working together.
So even though we are not going to directly launch, say, an orders and ticketing service at the same
time and try to test them together, this idea of testing events or receiving them and emitting them
is very similar in nature, and it will achieve a very similar goal.
All right, one last thing.
How are we going to actually execute these tests?
In other words, at a very practical level, when I say to you, okay, let's go and run our tests,
how do we do that?
How do we actually execute our tests at all?
Well, we're going to take a very simple, indirect approach.
We're going to run all of our tests directly at our terminal.
We're not going to use Docker.
We're not going to use Kubernetes or anything like that.
So when I say let's go run our tests, we're going to pretty much go over to our terminal and run a
command like NPM run test that's going to start up our server on our local machine or our individual
service, and then try to run some number of tests against it.
Now this has a very strong implication.
This is really implying that our local environment is capable, 100% of running each of these services.
And that probably makes a lot of sense right now.
Think about our off service.
What dependencies or what software do we need to have installed on our local system to run the service?
Well, we pretty much just need Node.js and a copy of MongoDB.
That's all we really have to have installed on our local system to run the service.
But in the future, you might be working on way more complex projects, projects where your services
have way more dependencies.
In other words, at some point in time in the future, you might be trying to test a service that requires
you to have a very particular operating system or a very particular and very complex and hard to run,
hard to set up database.
So even though this approach is going to be just fine for this current application in the future, it
might not work out so well.
So I'm going to show you some way that we can still run tests very easily, but it's a little bit more
complex in nature, but it can also handle way more complex setup requirements.
If not, that makes sense right now.
Don't sweat it.
Let's keep in mind I'm going to give you a quick guide on how to handle more complex testing in the
future.
So with all this in mind, I think we got a good overview on what we're doing.
So we're going to take a quick pause right now and then actually get down to the nitty gritty.
What are we really doing here?
What code are we really writing to test out our all service?